# BINF6210A3
Assignment 3

### Description:
The goal of the program is to generate as a user specified amount of "random" DNA Sequences with a specified user length that does not contain ANY restriction enzyme sites that is specified by the user. The DNA sequences generated by the program must have a 50-66% GC content range and cannot contain the target site or any partial target sites for the restriction enzyme that the user will specify.

The restriction enzymes that are currently present in this program are:
⋅⋅* HhaI
⋅⋅* HindIII
⋅⋅* NotI
⋅⋅* EcoRI
⋅⋅* FokI
⋅⋅* AlwI
⋅⋅* User Defined

### Limitations and Assumptions:
Due to the scope of the course, the assumptions that this program takes are that the FASTA files that are being used to read in the Users sequences are properly formatted following FASTA guidelines. Other assumptions include assuming that the user sequences do NOT contain any sites that will be cut as a result of the restriction enzyme and that the user will know which restriction site their restriction enzyme will target if they don't want to select from our list.

Some limitations of our program is that it only runs a single time and generates as many sequences as the user wants. The program would be a lot better if the user can continuously generate more sequences and change their own parameters such as the length of the sequence, the amount of sequences generated, and the restriction enzyme they would like to account for. Other limitations also include the inability for the user to type in their own sequences but having to load a FASTA file containing their sequences. Further limitations also include the lack of a GUI and intuitive selection options for the user.

A major limitation of this program is the use of recursion for regeneration. If the user specifies a very large DNA sequence (e.g. 300) and asks for the program to find one a sequence where a small site (e.g. CG) does not exist, the program may potentially run into a recursion depth error or an infinite recursion error. There is no check for this. Please make sure your inputs are reasonable.

### Compilation:
This program is coded entirely in Python 2.7.11

In order to compile it, please navigate to the directory where you have cloned this repository and follow:
```python
python "Assignment 3.py"
```

### User Guide
This program is generally well User Proofed assuming very basic level of understanding and reading comprehension when it comes to following instructions. There should be prompts that display when an incorrect input is entered and example prompts to show what type of entries are valid. 

When the program first starts it will display a WELCOME message:
> Hello and welcome to IRENAEUS Assignment 3

> The objective of this program is to generate random DNA sequences for you that will not contain any restriction enzyme sites (from our specified library) as well as any enzyme sites that you may want to specify.

The program will then prompt the user to enter two vital pieces of information (Length and Amount):
> How long do you wish the DNA sequence to be? e.g. 75

> How many sequences do you wish to generate? e.g. 25

The program will then offer a list of precompiled restriction enzymes which the user can either choose to type in (case insensitive) or select via their number
> Here is our library of restriction enzymes, please choose one of the following:

> 1. AlwI
> 2. HindII
> 3. EcoRI
> 4. FokI
> 5. NotI
> 6. HhaI

> Which enzyme would you like to use?

If the user chooses to NOT use one of the restriction enzymes in our library they can leave the choice blank. This will prompt the program to display the message below asking for the user to enter their own restriction enzyme site (case insensitive) or again leave it blank if they don't really care about restriction enzymes.
> If you would like to enter your own target site that your restriction enzyme will target, please do so here (e.g. ACCGGT) or leave blank:

The program will now ask the user to upload the Users sequences in a FASTA file. An example FASTA file has been provided in this repository to show the correct formatting of the FASTA file. Any other file or a non-existent file will not work.

Once the file has been uploaded and parsed, the program will begin to generate sequences and check them for GC content as well as restriction enzyme sites. If either of these cases fail, then the progam will continue to regenerate them until it satisifies the users demand. (See Limitation for Recursion Depth Error)

### Improvements
For future improvements, there could potentially be the introduction of a GUI in order for the user to have a more refined approach when it comes to entering and selecting options. A greater amount of enzymes could be added to the given libary or perhaps a simple look up towards a database that consists of these restriction enzymes could be used for the user to search for their own restriction enzyme. Furthermore, the catches for the Recursion Depth Error could be caught and handled appropraitely. Finally, the items mentioned in Limitations and Assumptions could all be fixed and accounted for respectively.
